#  Flexible-Threshold-Model-Stable-ToppLeone

Implementation of a flexible spliced distribution model combining a positively truncated stable tail component with a Topp–Leone exponential body distribution. The repository contains R codes for parameter estimation using quantile and superquantile, EM optimization, Monte Carlo experiments, and empirical application to informal sector income data.  We consider parameter estimation for stable distributions and their mixture. We  Provides various functions for parameter estimation of one-dimensional stable distributions and their mixtures. It implements a diverse set of estimation methods, including quantile-based approaches, regression methods based on the empirical characteristic function (empirical, kernel, and recursive), and maximum likelihood estimation. For mixture models, it provides stochastic expectation–maximization (SEM) algorithms and Bayesian estimation methods using sampling and importance sampling to overcome the long burn-in period of Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) strategies. The package also includes tools and statistical tests for analyzing whether a dataset follows a stable distribution. 

Some of the implemented methods are described in : Solym M. Manou-Abi, Mintodê Nicodème Atchadé, Martin-Junior S. Adechi, and Marc-Hubert Depret (Preprint 2026). Parameter Estimation in a Flexible Threshold Model Combining Positively Truncated Stable and Topp–Leone Exponential Distributions: An Application to Informal Sector Income Data.

The available codes implement the main computational procedures described in the paper, including quantile and superquantile-based initialization, incomplete moment estimation, EM-based maximum likelihood estimation, and optimization algorithms for empirical superquantile estimation.
